[Workspace] Add documentation for workspace and ACL (#8643)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _dashboards/workspace/create-workspace.md

---
layout: default
title: Create a workspace
parent: Workspace
nav_order: 1
---

# Create a workspace
Introduced 2.18
{: .label .label-purple }

Before getting started with this tutorial, you must enable the workspace feature flag. See [Enabling the ACL feature]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/dashboards/workspace/workspace/#enabling-workspace](http://localhost:4000/docs/latest/dashboards/management/acl/#enabling-acl-feature).

When saved objects permission is enabled, only users with dashboards admin status can create workspaces. See [Configuring the dashboard admin]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/dashboards/workspace/workspace-acl/#config-dashboard-admin). 

> 

Reviewer: removed

> When the saved objects permission is enabled, only users with dashboards admin status can create workspaces. See [Configuring the dashboard admin]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/dashboards/workspace/workspace-acl/#config-dashboard-admin) for more information. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the saved objects permission is enabled, only users with admin status can create workspaces. See [Configuring the dashboard admin]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/dashboards/workspace/workspace-acl/#config-dashboard-admin) for more information. 
```

  - **Use case and features** is required. Choose the use case that best fits your needs. If you are using Amazon OpenSearch Serverless and have enabled the [multiple data sources]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/dashboards/management/data-sources/) feature, **Essentials** is automatically assigned. 
4. (Optional) Select the color picker to customize the color of your workspace icon.
5. (Optional) Add a workspace description of up to 200 characters. This option is disabled when the description exceeds the character limit.
6. Save your workspace.
  - The **Create workspace** button becomes active once you enter the information for all required fields. You become the workspace owner automatically. The system redirects you to either the collaborators page if the saved objects permission is enabled or the overview page if the saved objects permission is disabled. See [Configuring dashboard admin]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/dashboards/workspace/workspace-acl/#config-dashboard-admin) for more information about permissions.

> To set up permissions, see the workspace ACL documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To set up permissions, see [Workspace access control lists]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/dashboards/workspace/workspace-acl/) for more information.
```

## Associating data sources with a workspace

> The **Associate data source** option is only visible when the multiple data sources feature is enabled. Before creating your workspace, you must connect it with at least one data source. If you have not set up your data sources, see the setup guide. Once your sources are connected, you can link them to your new workspace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Associate data source** option is only visible when the multiple data sources feature is enabled. Before creating your workspace, you must connect it with at least one data source. If you have not set up your data sources, see [Data sources]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/dashboards/management/data-sources/). Once your sources are connected, you can link them to your new workspace.
```

{: .warning}

### Associating OpenSearch data sources

To associate OpenSearch data sources, follow these steps: 

1. Select the **Associate OpenSearch Data Sources** button to open the selection modal.
2. View the available data sources in the modal:
  - Standard OpenSearch sources appear as single entries.

>   - Sources with direct query connections show a +N related indicator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Sources with direct query connections show a +N indicator.
```
